We will never know their names.
The first victim could not have
been recorded, for there was no
written language to record it.
But they were somebody's
daughter,
or father,
or friend.
They were loved by people
around them.
And they were in pain,
covered in rashes,
confused and scared, not
knowing why this was happening
to them or how they could stop
it,
the victim of a mad inhuman god.
There was nothing to be done.
Humanity was not strong enough,
not aware enough,
not knowledgeable enough
to fight back against a monster
that it could not see.
Not yet.
In ancient Egypt, it struck
slave and Pharaoh alike.
In Rome,
it effortlessly decimated
armies.
It killed in Syria, in Moscow.
In India, five million dead.
It killed a thousand Europeans
every day in the eighteenth
century.
It killed more than fifty
million Native Americans.
From the Peloponnesian War to
the Civil War,
it slew more soldiers and
civilians than any weapon,
any soldier, any army.
Cultures grew and faltered, and
it remained.
Empires rose and fell, and it
thrived.
Ideologies waxed and waned, and
it did not care.
Kill. Maim. Spread. Multiply.
An ancient mad god,
hidden from view, that could
not be fought,
could not be confronted, could
not even be comprehended.
Not the only one of its kind,
but the most devastating.
For a long time there was no
hope,
only the bitter hollow
endurance of survivors.
In China, in the tenth century,
humanity began to fight back.
We learned that survivors of
the mad god's curse would
never be touched again.
They had taken a portion of
that power into themselves,
and were protected by it.
Not only that, but the power
could be shared by consuming a
remnant of their wounds.
There was a price, for you
could not take the god's power
without first defeating it, but
it was a smaller battle,
on humanity's terms.
And by the sixteenth century,
the technique spread
to India, across Asia,
the Ottoman Empire, Europe.
In 1796, a more powerful
technique was discovered by
Edward Jenner,
and an idea began to take hold.
Perhaps the ancient god could
be killed.
A whisper became a voice,
a voice became a call,
a call became a battle cry
echoing across villages, cities,
and nations.
Humanity began to cooperate,
spreading the protective power
across the globe,
dispatching masters to protect
whole populations.
Sworn enemies joined in common
cause for this one battle,
their governments mandating
that all citizens protect
themselves, for giving the
enemy even a single life would
put millions in danger.
And inch by inch we drove our
enemy back.
Fewer friends wept, fewer
neighbors were crippled,
fewer parents had to bury their
children.
At the dawn of the twentieth
century, for the first time,
we banished smallpox from
entire regions of the world.
We faltered many times in our
efforts.
But there were individuals who
never gave up,
who fought for the dream of a
world where no child or loved
one would ever fear the demon
again.
Victor Zhdanov,
who called for humanity to
unite in a final push.
The great tactician Karel Raška,
who conceived of a strategy to
annihilate the enemy.
Donald Henderson,
who led the efforts in those
final days.
The enemy grew weaker.
Millions became thousands,
thousands became dozens.
And then when the enemy did
strike, scores of humans came
forth to defy it, protecting
all it might endanger.
Smallpox's last attack in the
wild was on Ali Maow Maalin,
in 1977.
For months afterwards,
we swept the surrounding area,
seeking out any last desperate
hiding place
where the enemy might remain.
And we found none.
On December 9th, 1979,
humanity declared victory.
The horror from beyond memory,
the monster that took five
hundred million people from
this world,
was destroyed.
You are a member of the species
that did that.
Never forget what we are
capable of
when we band together
and declare battle on what is
broken in this world.